0: Eric Adams spends coldest night of year at new NYC migrant shelter

0: Eric Adams spends coldest night of year at new NYC migrant shelter. Mayor Eric Adams tried to fend off criticism over accommodations at the new emergency migrant shelter in Brooklyn by staying there overnight during the coldest day of the year.

“We are going to stay tonight with our brothers here and just let them know that we are all in this together,” said Adams, while playing video games late Friday with one of the hundreds of migrant men staying at the converted Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in Red Hook. Some progressive pols, including Councilman Lincoln Restler (D-Brooklyn), contended the new Red Hook accommodations are not very welcoming after a recent tour. Adams, who declared a state of emergency over the migrant crisis in October, has said it will cost taxpayers as much as $2 billion to provide the migrant population — now 44,000 and counting — with shelter and other services.
1: Biden officials kept quiet about suspected Chinese spy balloon fearing diplomatic, political fallout

1: Biden officials kept quiet about suspected Chinese spy balloon fearing diplomatic, political fallout. Biden administration officials kept quiet for nearly a week after the suspected Chinese spy balloon first entered U.S. airspace, fearing the matter would derail Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s planned trip to Beijing, according to a new report.

U.S. officials first became aware of the balloon on Jan. 28 when it was spotted over Alaska before entering Canadian airspace and returning over U.S. skies over northern Idaho on Tuesday, Bloomberg reported, citing several officials familiar with the matter. The Pentagon revealed on Thursday evening that it was tracking the Chinese balloon in U.S. airspace. “It does not present a military or physical threat to people on the ground.”

But the administration’s decision not to shoot the balloon down has been the subject of intense criticism by some who say not doing so was a display of weakness by the administration.

Lawmakers from both sides of the aisle have also pressed the administration to brief Congress on its handling of the incident.

Rep. Mike Gallagher, Wisconsin Republican and Chairman of the House China competition commission, said the balloon should have been shot down before it entered U.S. airspace.
2: Biden administration restores protections for Alaska's Tongass forest

2: The Biden administration has restored protections for Alaska’s Tongass National Forest, the world’s largest intact temperate rainforest, sometimes called, “America’s Amazon.” The new protections, announced on January 25, repeal the 2020 Alaska Roadless Rule that opened the doors for road construction and timber harvest in the forest and also restore “longstanding roadless protections to 9.37 million acres of roadless areas that support the ecological, economic and cultural values of Southeastern Alaska,” according to a Department of Agriculture release.

In 2020 Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in the release that the protections were crucial for preserving biodiversity, addressing the climate crisis and prioritizing the voices of tribal nations.

“As our nation’s largest national forest and the largest intact temperate rainforest in the world, the Tongass National Forest is key to conserving biodiversity and addressing the climate crisis,” Vilsack said. “Restoring roadless protections listens to the voices of Tribal Nations and the people of Southeast Alaska while recognizing the importance of fishing and tourism to the region’s economy.”

The forest spans a total of 16.7 million acres which, are “critical for carbon sequestration and carbon storage to help mitigate climate change,” according to the Department of Agriculture. The area is also a key tourist attraction as home to iconic Alaska wildlife such as eagles, bears, and salmon, according to the US Forest Service.
3: A look at China's history of spying in the US

3: US officials say Beijing uses every tool at its disposal to gain a strategic advantage over the United States, its primary geopolitical rival. While the suspected Chinese balloon spotted in the skies above multiple US states this week prompted an uproar from Republicans and Democrats alike, it is not the first time this kind of activity has been observed.

A US official said Friday there had been similar incidents over Hawaii and Guam in recent years, while another official on Thursday said, “Instances of this activity have been observed over the past several years, including prior to this administration.”

US officials have said the flight path of the latest balloon, first spotted over Montana on Thursday, could potentially take it over a “number of sensitive sites.” Chinese officials wanted to build the pagoda with materials shipped to the US in diplomatic pouches, which US Customs officials are barred from examining, the sources said. The canceled garden is just one of the projects that has caught the eye of the FBI and other federal agencies during what US security officials say has been a dramatic escalation of Chinese espionage on US soil over the past decade.
4: Biden administration to brief top members of Congress on Chinese spy balloon

4: Biden administration to brief top members of Congress on Chinese spy balloon. Republican House Speaker Kevin McCarthy of California demanded the meeting after the balloon was discovered in US airspace.

“China’s brazen disregard for U.S. sovereignty is a destabilizing action that must be addressed, and President Biden cannot be silent. US intelligence officials widely dispute the claim and believe the balloon intentionally entered US airspace.

Secretary of State Blinken’s planned visit to Beijing next week was indefinitely postponed over the incident. Missouri Republican Gov. Mike Parson said he too had been kept in the dark by Team Biden.

“We have heard no explanation or plan to remove it.
5: Why the 'Crypto Bowl' won't be back this year

5: Buzzy firms made bold pitches last year, and shelled out millions of dollars on ads encouraging viewers not to be afraid of this new-fangled digital investment — and for God’s sake don’t miss out on this exciting opportunity! Despite what is being called a “crypto winter,” sports advertising remains a crucial avenue for the digital curency, marketing experts say, as their target demographics share significant overlap — sports fans and crypto traders tend to be mostly male and mostly young. “The tone has shifted towards Web3-driven fan engagement over crypto-specific advertising,” said Silvia Lacayo, head of marketing at crypto exchange Bitstamp US. (Web3 refers to a future internet framework that is decentralized and gives consumers more control over their own data).

“Crypto firms are focusing less on crypto advertising and more on investing in better user experiences, products, and customer service,” Lacayo added.
6: Exclusive: Supreme Court justices used personal emails for work and 'burn bags' were left open in hallways, sources say

6: Exclusive: Supreme Court justices used personal emails for work and 'burn bags' were left open in hallways, sources say. Supreme Court employees also used printers that didn’t produce logs – or were able to print sensitive documents off-site without tracking – and “burn bags” meant to ensure the safe destruction of materials were left open and unattended in hallways.

“This has been going on for years,” one former employee said. However, the court did not disclose Chertoff had been paid at least $1 million in recent years to perform security assessments for the court.

In her report last month, Supreme Court Marshal Gail Curley noted that the “court’s current method of destroying court sensitive documents has vulnerabilities that should be addressed.”

Three former employees told CNN of loose security around burn bags that are supplied to chambers to deal with sensitive documents. A burn bag is a security bag that holds sensitive documents which will ultimately be destroyed by fire or shredding.
7: Democrats poised to approve 2024 primary calendar that demotes Iowa, boosts South Carolina

7: The national party's rule-making arm green-lit a calendar in December that makes South Carolina the intial contest, elevates Nevada to the second position alongside New Hampshire and welcomes Georgia and Michigan to the early primary window for the first time. New Hampshire Democrats have aggresively fought the shift, citing a decades-old law that requires their state to have the first primary. Buckley said the political dynamic in the state leaves New Hampshire Democrats in an "impossible, no-win position." At a January meeting prior to the Philadelphia gathering, the Rules and Bylaws Committee voted to give New Hampshire and Georgia more time to meet the requirements to hold early contests after both states missed an initial deadline.
8: Rishi Sunak has had a torrid first 100 days as Britain's leader. But the Conservatives might not be doomed

8: Other members of Sunak’s inner circle are also facing scrutiny, raising questions about the PM’s judgment, especially to those he deems to be loyal.

The poll ratings for his ruling Conservative Party, while slightly better than when he first took office, are still consistently 20 points lower than that of the official opposition Labour Party. “At the 2019 election, which saw Labour lose a lot of seats, they actually had a higher vote share than in 2010 and 2015, even though they won more seats in both of those elections,” Ford adds. Labour has also historically relied on winning seats in Scotland, a stronghold that was blown apart in 2014 with the first Scottish vote on independence. Things have changed a great deal since then and Labour candidates are now quick to say that there is work to do.

“Between this point in the election cycle and election day there is usually a move back towards the government, especially when that government is Conservative
9: Biden says administration will "take care of" suspected spy balloon

9: But Chinese officials say a similar thing – repeatedly accusing the US of espionage. A US official said Friday that there have been several other spy balloons spotted over Hawaii and Guam in recent years. Two US defense officials have told CNN the balloon is expected to reach the East Coast and then pass out to sea in the southeast, near the Carolinas. Biden is being constantly briefed on suspected Chinese spy balloon The suspected balloon flies over Billings, Montana on Wednesday.
